docs/src/content/docs/cldimage/basic-usage.mdx, before:

---
title: Getting Started with CldImage
description: Optimize and transform images in Astro with the CldImage component.
ogImageTitle: CldImage
head:
  - tag: title
    content: CldImage - Astro Cloudinary
---
import { CldImage } from '../../../../../astro-cloudinary';

import CodeBlock from '../../../components/CodeBlock.astro';
import HeaderImage from '../../../components/HeaderImage.astro';
import DemoImageEvents from '../../../components/DemoImageEvents.astro';

The CldImage component provides an easy way to deliver images from Cloudinary in an Astro app.

With it comes access to more advanced features like dynamic cropping, background removal, overlays, and other Cloudinary transformations.

As CldImage is a wrapper around the Unpic Image component, you also gain access to built-in Image component features that will work out-of-the-box like [Responsive Sizing](/guides/responsive-images).

## Basic Usage

The basic required props include `width`, `height`, `src`, and `alt`:

<HeaderImage>
  <CldImage
    src="cld-sample-5"
    width="1870"
    height="1250"
    alt="A variety of colorful and appetizing breakfast dishes, including waffles, oatmeal, and fresh fruits, are arranged on a white surface, accompanied by various condiments and utensils."
    sizes="100vw"
  />
</HeaderImage>

<CodeBlock>
```jsx
---
import { CldImage } from 'astro-cloudinary';
---
<CldImage
  src="<Public ID>"
  width="<Width>"
  height="<Height>"
  alt="<Description>"
  sizes="100vw" // Optional
/>
```
</CodeBlock>

The `src` property takes in a Cloudinary Public ID which includes the folder path along with the ID of the image itself.
The `width` and the `height` should represent the rendered size and the `alt` value should be a text-based description
of the image.

The `sizes` prop is optional, but recommended for [Responsive Sizing](/guides/responsive-images).

## Transformations

You can further take advantage of Cloudinary features like replacing backgrounds with generative AI and text overlays by adding additional props:

<HeaderImage>
  <CldImage
    src="cld-sample-5"
    width="800"
    height="600"
    crop={{
      type: 'fill',
      source: true
    }}
    replaceBackground="cartoon outer space"
    overlays={[
      {
        position: {
          y: 40,
          x: -10,
          gravity: 'south',
        },
        text: {
          color: 'magenta',
          fontFamily: 'Source Sans Pro',
          fontSize: 160,
          fontWeight: 'black',
          text: 'OUT OF THIS WORLD'
        }
      },
      {
        position: {
          y: 50,
          gravity: 'south',
        },
        text: {
          color: 'white',
          fontFamily: 'Source Sans Pro',
          fontSize: 160,
          fontWeight: 'black',
          text: 'OUT OF THIS WORLD'
        }
      },
    ]}
    alt="Turtle in the ocean"
    sizes="100vw"
  />
</HeaderImage>

<CodeBlock>
```jsx
---
import { CldImage } from 'astro-cloudinary';
---
<CldImage
  src="<Public ID>"
  width="<Width>"
  height="<Height>"
  crop={{
    type: 'fill',
    source: true
  }}
  replaceBackground="cartoon outer space"
  overlays={[
    {
      position: {
        y: 40,
        x: -10,
        gravity: 'south',
      },
      text: {
        color: 'magenta',
        fontFamily: 'Source Sans Pro',
        fontSize: 160,
        fontWeight: 'black',
        text: 'OUT OF THIS WORLD'
      }
    },
    {
      position: {
        y: 50,
        gravity: 'south',
      },
      text: {
        color: 'white',
        fontFamily: 'Source Sans Pro',
        fontSize: 160,
        fontWeight: 'black',
        text: 'OUT OF THIS WORLD'
      }
    },
  ]}
  alt="<Description>"
  sizes="100vw"
/>
```
</CodeBlock>

[Check out more examples](/cldimage/examples) of what you can do with transformations!

## Using Cloudinary URLs

CldImage supports passing a fully qualified Cloudinary URL as the `src`, however, it
must include a version number (`/v1234/`) in order to be correctly parsed.

:::note
The version number is required due to the variable nature of Cloudinary URLs. This helps
to ensure the integretiy when during the parsing process.
:::

<CodeBlock className="mt-6">
```jsx
---
import { CldImage } from 'astro-cloudinary';
---
<CldImage
  src="https://res.cloudinary.com/mycloud/image/upload/v1234/myimage"
  width="<Width>"
  height="<Height>"
  alt="<Description>"
/>
```
</CodeBlock>

### Preserving URL Transformations

If using a full Cloudinary URL, you might already have transformations applied to your image.

To preserve those transformations, you can apply the `preserveTransformations` property:

<CodeBlock className="mt-6">
```jsx
---
import { CldImage } from 'astro-cloudinary';
---
<CldImage
  src="https://res.cloudinary.com/<Cloud Name>/image/upload/w_100,h_200,c_fill/v1234/myimage"
  width="<Width>"
  height="<Height>"
  preserveTransformations
  alt="<Description>"
/>
```
</CodeBlock>

For example:

<HeaderImage>
  <CldImage
    src="https://res.cloudinary.com/astro-cloudinary/image/upload/e_background_removal/b_blueviolet/f_auto/q_auto/v1/cld-sample-5"
    width="800"
    height="600"
    preserveTransformations
    alt="test"
  />
</HeaderImage>

<CodeBlock>
```jsx
---
import { CldImage } from 'astro-cloudinary';
---
<CldImage
  src="https://res.cloudinary.com/<Cloud Name>/image/upload/e_background_removal/b_blueviolet/f_auto/q_auto/v1/cld-sample-5"
  width="<Width>"
  height="<Height>"
  preserveTransformations
  alt="test"
/>
```
</CodeBlock>

Would generate a URL of:

<CodeBlock alwaysExpanded>
```
https://res.cloudinary.com/<Cloud Name>/image/upload/e_background_removal/b_blueviolet/f_auto/q_auto/c_limit,w_1600/v1/cld-sample-5?_a=BBGAABS00
```
</CodeBlock>

## Image Events

The CldImage component actively triggers a single Error event as a CustomEvent
in order to allow callback functionality if there is something wrong in how
the image loads.

:::caution
This image is intended to be broken for demonstration purposes!
:::

<HeaderImage>
  <DemoImageEvents
    src="this-image-does-not-exist"
    width="960"
    height="600"
  />
</HeaderImage>

<CodeBlock>
```jsx
---
import { CldImage } from 'astro-cloudinary';
---
<CldImage
  id="image-events"
  src="this-image-does-not-exist"
  width="<Width>"
  height="<Height>"
/>

<script>
const image = document.querySelector(`#image-events`);

if ( image ) {
  image.addEventListener('cldimage:error', ((e: CustomEvent<{ detail: {} }>) => {
    console.log('cldimage:error', e.detail)
  }) as EventListener);
};
</script>
```
</CodeBlock>

:::tip
See your browser's web console to preview the information logged in the above callback.
:::

## Learn More about CldImage
* [Configuration](/cldimage/configuration)
* [Examples](/cldimage/examples)

Commit message:

Add Warning in Docs about Lazy Loading and LCP

docs/src/content/docs/cldimage/basic-usage.mdx, after:

---
title: Getting Started with CldImage
description: Optimize and transform images in Astro with the CldImage component.
ogImageTitle: CldImage
head:
  - tag: title
    content: CldImage - Astro Cloudinary
---
import { CldImage } from '../../../../../astro-cloudinary';

import CodeBlock from '../../../components/CodeBlock.astro';
import HeaderImage from '../../../components/HeaderImage.astro';
import DemoImageEvents from '../../../components/DemoImageEvents.astro';

The CldImage component provides an easy way to deliver images from Cloudinary in an Astro app.

With it comes access to more advanced features like dynamic cropping, background removal, overlays, and other Cloudinary transformations.

As CldImage is a wrapper around the Unpic Image component, you also gain access to built-in Image component features that will work out-of-the-box like [Responsive Sizing](/guides/responsive-images).

## Basic Usage

The basic required props include `width`, `height`, `src`, and `alt`:

<HeaderImage>
  <CldImage
    src="cld-sample-5"
    width="1870"
    height="1250"
    alt="A variety of colorful and appetizing breakfast dishes, including waffles, oatmeal, and fresh fruits, are arranged on a white surface, accompanied by various condiments and utensils."
    sizes="100vw"
  />
</HeaderImage>

<CodeBlock>
```jsx
---
import { CldImage } from 'astro-cloudinary';
---
<CldImage
  src="<Public ID>"
  width="<Width>"
  height="<Height>"
  alt="<Description>"
  sizes="100vw" // Optional
/>
```
</CodeBlock>

The `src` property takes in a Cloudinary Public ID which includes the folder path along with the ID of the image itself.
The `width` and the `height` should represent the rendered size and the `alt` value should be a text-based description
of the image.

The `sizes` prop is optional, but recommended for [Responsive Sizing](/guides/responsive-images).

:::tip
For images critical to page load like hero images or other above-the-fold content, consider adding `fetchpriority="high"` and `loading="eager"` to improve your [Largest Contentful Paint (LCP)](/guides/image-performance-lcp). Learn more about [Image Performance & LCP](/guides/image-performance-lcp).
:::

## Transformations

You can further take advantage of Cloudinary features like replacing backgrounds with generative AI and text overlays by adding additional props:

<HeaderImage>
  <CldImage
    src="cld-sample-5"
    width="800"
    height="600"
    crop={{
      type: 'fill',
      source: true
    }}
    replaceBackground="cartoon outer space"
    overlays={[
      {
        position: {
          y: 40,
          x: -10,
          gravity: 'south',
        },
        text: {
          color: 'magenta',
          fontFamily: 'Source Sans Pro',
          fontSize: 160,
          fontWeight: 'black',
          text: 'OUT OF THIS WORLD'
        }
      },
      {
        position: {
          y: 50,
          gravity: 'south',
        },
        text: {
          color: 'white',
          fontFamily: 'Source Sans Pro',
          fontSize: 160,
          fontWeight: 'black',
          text: 'OUT OF THIS WORLD'
        }
      },
    ]}
    alt="Turtle in the ocean"
    sizes="100vw"
  />
</HeaderImage>

<CodeBlock>
```jsx
---
import { CldImage } from 'astro-cloudinary';
---
<CldImage
  src="<Public ID>"
  width="<Width>"
  height="<Height>"
  crop={{
    type: 'fill',
    source: true
  }}
  replaceBackground="cartoon outer space"
  overlays={[
    {
      position: {
        y: 40,
        x: -10,
        gravity: 'south',
      },
      text: {
        color: 'magenta',
        fontFamily: 'Source Sans Pro',
        fontSize: 160,
        fontWeight: 'black',
        text: 'OUT OF THIS WORLD'
      }
    },
    {
      position: {
        y: 50,
        gravity: 'south',
      },
      text: {
        color: 'white',
        fontFamily: 'Source Sans Pro',
        fontSize: 160,
        fontWeight: 'black',
        text: 'OUT OF THIS WORLD'
      }
    },
  ]}
  alt="<Description>"
  sizes="100vw"
/>
```
</CodeBlock>

[Check out more examples](/cldimage/examples) of what you can do with transformations!

## Using Cloudinary URLs

CldImage supports passing a fully qualified Cloudinary URL as the `src`, however, it
must include a version number (`/v1234/`) in order to be correctly parsed.

:::note
The version number is required due to the variable nature of Cloudinary URLs. This helps
to ensure the integretiy when during the parsing process.
:::

<CodeBlock className="mt-6">
```jsx
---
import { CldImage } from 'astro-cloudinary';
---
<CldImage
  src="https://res.cloudinary.com/mycloud/image/upload/v1234/myimage"
  width="<Width>"
  height="<Height>"
  alt="<Description>"
/>
```
</CodeBlock>

### Preserving URL Transformations

If using a full Cloudinary URL, you might already have transformations applied to your image.

To preserve those transformations, you can apply the `preserveTransformations` property:

<CodeBlock className="mt-6">
```jsx
---
import { CldImage } from 'astro-cloudinary';
---
<CldImage
  src="https://res.cloudinary.com/<Cloud Name>/image/upload/w_100,h_200,c_fill/v1234/myimage"
  width="<Width>"
  height="<Height>"
  preserveTransformations
  alt="<Description>"
/>
```
</CodeBlock>

For example:

<HeaderImage>
  <CldImage
    src="https://res.cloudinary.com/astro-cloudinary/image/upload/e_background_removal/b_blueviolet/f_auto/q_auto/v1/cld-sample-5"
    width="800"
    height="600"
    preserveTransformations
    alt="test"
  />
</HeaderImage>

<CodeBlock>
```jsx
---
import { CldImage } from 'astro-cloudinary';
---
<CldImage
  src="https://res.cloudinary.com/<Cloud Name>/image/upload/e_background_removal/b_blueviolet/f_auto/q_auto/v1/cld-sample-5"
  width="<Width>"
  height="<Height>"
  preserveTransformations
  alt="test"
/>
```
</CodeBlock>

Would generate a URL of:

<CodeBlock alwaysExpanded>
```
https://res.cloudinary.com/<Cloud Name>/image/upload/e_background_removal/b_blueviolet/f_auto/q_auto/c_limit,w_1600/v1/cld-sample-5?_a=BBGAABS00
```
</CodeBlock>

## Image Events

The CldImage component actively triggers a single Error event as a CustomEvent
in order to allow callback functionality if there is something wrong in how
the image loads.

:::caution
This image is intended to be broken for demonstration purposes!
:::

<HeaderImage>
  <DemoImageEvents
    src="this-image-does-not-exist"
    width="960"
    height="600"
  />
</HeaderImage>

<CodeBlock>
```jsx
---
import { CldImage } from 'astro-cloudinary';
---
<CldImage
  id="image-events"
  src="this-image-does-not-exist"
  width="<Width>"
  height="<Height>"
/>

<script>
const image = document.querySelector(`#image-events`);

if ( image ) {
  image.addEventListener('cldimage:error', ((e: CustomEvent<{ detail: {} }>) => {
    console.log('cldimage:error', e.detail)
  }) as EventListener);
};
</script>
```
</CodeBlock>

:::tip
See your browser's web console to preview the information logged in the above callback.
:::

## Learn More about CldImage
* [Configuration](/cldimage/configuration)
* [Examples](/cldimage/examples)
